---
layout: post
title: Narrative
subtitle: What is the artifact, why is it included, what did I learn?
tags: [narrative]
comments: false
---

The artifact I have chosen was a calculator that was used to help teach Git in CS-310, Collaboration and Team Project. It was originally developed in Java and did the following basic calculations: addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, and squaring. It utilizes multiple classes within the program to help with the readability and functionality of the code. The original code it was based on was built in 2010, with the additions added during class in 2021. Originally in the course of original development, I employed Git practices for version control to help mitigate potential errors with development. 

I have included it in my portfolio as it was going to provide a challenge of understanding Java enough to redevelop it in the Python language and add in the missing artifacts. A GUI was added utilizing Tkinter, which required me to learn how it would interact with the Python code. It was also chosen as Python and SQLite can interact with each other, which was needed for the database aspect of the project. I designed a usable GUI for users to use the buttons as needed, with Python and Tkinter doing most of the work, using loops to create the buttons instead of manually creating each button. That solved the problem of the code being too long and harder to read. With the conversion to Python, I demonstrate an ability to use well-founded and innovative techniques, skills, and tools in computing practices. As the database is local, I developed with a security mindset that only those on the user’s profile on the PC can use the database set up. Should someone else open up the program, it would create a new file for a new database.  

I learned a lot more about Python and how it interacts with other objects, like Tkinter and SQLite. One of the biggest challenges was recording what button a user pressed and converting it to a value that could be stored, especially if a user entered a number greater than one digit. Also, how to process and store an operative when that is entered. Once I had the values reading the inputs correctly, the rest of the development went smoothly for bug fixing and general development. Learning about SQLite and how to incorporate it into the project was also a bit of a challenge as now there were two different languages on the same page, even though there was not much for SQL.  While a user cannot update anything in the database, the database can create itself if it is not available on the user’s PC, create entries, read through the history using the up and down arrows on the GUI, and delete the whole history should the user request it. It started off a bit of a challenge to figure out the best way to incorporate it into the calculator, but I feel like I made good progress with it.  
